yo Eliot they've got a really good
question for my buddy Frank who has
injured his back and he can no longer do
deadlifts or power cleans any exercises
that causes his center of gravity to
move over his base of support or flexes
at the hips this is generally when most
people either injure their backs will
have pain in their back so his question
is should I wear a weight belt now that
I'm waiting for my herniated disc to
heal completely
and the answer I'm gonna offer you is no
I know you want to Train right I know
you want to continue to get stronger I
know you've got an injury that's the
limitation and if you wrap up your core
with a belt you will be able to train
the prime movers in absence of the
stabilizer muscles that are not working
that caused your your hernia your
herniated disc or injury to actually
happen the reason why I'm telling you no
right because you can do it you can
totally do it use that belt by guarantee
you're going to be dependent on that
belt for the rest of your life your
injury is never going to be fully healed
you're never going to have the the full
body strength that's required in order
to train without a belt and the reason
why is because you're gonna continue
getting stronger in your prime movers in
absence of your stabilizers right so you
don't see what I'm saying
get the muscles of your abdominal region
your core right your deep abdominal wall
and even your superficial abdominal
muscles are they often act specifically
to Depot Domino wall act as stabilizers
of the hip and the pelvis while your
arms and your legs
Atkins act as prime movers of your limbs
okay so follow me if you continue to
train your prime movers right these big
gigantic muscles in absence of these
stabilizer muscles of your core you're
going to get a situation where there is
an imbalance between the core
and the legs and the arms and so on and
so forth where now instead of there
being a so for example let's say that
the percentage difference between your
core right your stabilizers and your
prime movers was 60/40 right and that's
what caused this little tweak in your
back your herniated disc which is not a
big deal but you're gonna have to heal
they're gonna have to sort of deal with
it cause this to happen right now if you
go and put on a belt because you're
injured the prime mover is gonna
continue getting stronger right so say
they increase the percent increases the
percentage of the strength difference
between ratio between your cornea prime
movers to 70/30 or to 80/20 right
because now when you're holding and
you've got that belt on you don't have
to use those stabilizers the belt
becomes your stabilizer but you're
continue to get stronger in your prime
movers so instead of it being 60/40 the
difference which was just slight and
caused your injury you're gonna further
widen the gap between the two I hope
this all makes sense are you following
me so when you do feel better which you
know might take forever because you're
you're continuing the train and
furthering further facilitating that
imbalance when you do decide to take off
your belt and you've got a 10% to a 90%
difference between your stabilizers and
your prime movers you realize that holy
I just dug my grave a lot deeper
right and then what you're gonna have to
do then is spend a lot of time
rehabilitating the faulty recruitment
patterns associated with the imbalance
that you further facilitated during your
injury time the best bet the best bet
for you is to start training the core
muscles in an isolated fashion right
that means doing tummy vacuums that
means doing exercises that integrate the
core like you see me doing a lot of
these exercises with Swiss balls you see
me doing them with the cables right I
would invite you to do something like
yoga or martial arts where they force
you to be very mindful of your full body
during a particular movement and
and and start to integrate start to
build up the strength so that it can
support your prime movers right and you
can do this even while you're injured
I've done videos about herniated discs
there are exercises that you can do
based on where the Bulge is where it's
herniated right so if this is your
vertebra if it's if the Bulge is
herniated anteriorly they're gonna be
exercises associated with that laterally
or posterior lis depending on where the
Bulge is you should know if you went to
the doctor and there are exercises
associated with correcting it and then
creating a situation where the
doesn't happen again all right I've got
videos on this I'll try to link it up so
that you can watch it but that's it man
dude sometimes we just got to take a
break from the heavy lifting alright as
much as we love bodybuilding and love
strength training there are times where
you got to take a break from it and you
got to go back to creating structural
integrity and working with your body as
a whole and integrating muscles that
have had a motor sensory amnesia and
this typically happens more so than any
other muscle in the body with the
abdominal region specifically the deep
abdominal wall so go back dude you've
got a lot of work to do but if you do it
right from the beginning then you're not
gonna have bigger problems later on not
sexy advice not popular advice but the
one I would do myself and I would offer
to somebody that I care a lot about I
care about you guys so do the right
thing grow stronger talk to you next
time yo Eliot